Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics today we're solving the challenge for Wall Street.
Very interesting.
I hope you found the tutorial very interesting and the homework is so very interesting so let's have
a look at how we can solve it.
And as before before we proceed Here's a disclaimer I'm not going to read out because I read in the
challenge itself.
But if you haven't seen the disclaimer yet make sure to read through it.
Just because we're mentioning some financial markets and so on I just wanted to make sure it's a we're
this is all for purposes of education only in the space of analytics and statistics rather than finance
so just make sure you're aware of the disclaimer.
And now let's proceed.
So the team I just wanted to quote this phrase from the challenge itself and the main part that was
I wanted to point out his profits have I mean ninety five dollars and seventy cents and a standard deviation
of 1247 dollars.
How crazy is that.
I just wanted to spend a bit of time like a side note here to illustrate how really crazy that is.
And also here he does say la distribution.
But if you saw the hint or even if you didn't see the hint because of what we discussed in the tutorials
we don't really mind what distribution the underlying population has with its Loblaws or anything else.
We can still just supply the Central Limit Theorem.
It holds it works.
And this is completely irrelevant so it was there just to scare you off.
And I hope it didn't scare you off and you were able to solve the challenge so we don't worry about
the distribution at all what type of distribution it is.
And so yeah let's plot this let's see how this looks.
So there's our access that's a zero.
If that's a thousand that's a minus a thousand dollars then that's ninety five dollars and seventy cents
that's that close to zero.
They're very close.
And that's just so proximately So that's approximately drawn to scale.
And the other thing I want to say is that even though this is applauses Russian we know it does matter
and we're going to be drawing a normal distribution just to see what this would feel like on a normal
distribution.
Just understand what what it means when the verion or when the standard deviation is so high compared
to the mean.
So let's have a look.
That's our the normal distribution which we we're accustomed to the image that we've been looking at
so it looks it looks okay you know nice neat normal distribution.
But the problem here is that you can see like £95 only That's the mean.
There we go.
That's mean but our Sandri vision is 1247.
So that means the distance these lines are plus one sound deviation minus one standard that means a
distance between the mean and each one of these lines is 1247 meaning that from here it does no way
is going to be here is actually going to be somewhere with there and this line is going to be somewhere
over there or behind this one minus one doesn't this was going to be past this 1000.
So let's stretch it out let's see what that will look like.
There we go.
So as you can see that's more realistic has more like it.
And the problem here is that.
So what does this mean.
What does the distribution like that mean.
Well if you stretch out even more you'll just become like if you stretch it out infinitely you'll just
become flat right or will be just there won't be an ever completely flat but it basically just becomes
more and more flatter and flatter and and the top obviously goes down because you know your area under
the curve has to has to be equal to one because that's probability.
But nevertheless what we're looking at is remember the rule that between these standard deviations you
have 68 approximately 68 percent or 34 percent here 34 percent here.
Wow.
When it looks something like this let's just look at it and in the example of training that we're talking
about now.
So it looks like this.
And you have 34 percent falling here 34 percent here so about.
Sixty eight percent of the observations for here may be a little bit more fall here and so on and so
you know kind of where we're to expect them to fall and therefore yes they can fall below zero.
But as you can see out of the 68 percent most of them are above zero.
When you have a scenario like this 68 percent are in here they like pretty much almost this 95 with
70 becomes so close to zero that it's not 4 percent here but maybe out of these 35 percent that are
here maybe 32 percent are below zero.
So there's a lot of observations that are falling below zero and observations below zero means that
it's a loss.
It's a trade.
The trade brought a loss rather than a profit so profit losses are here and you can see it goes quite
far down down the good side.
Good thing is that the upside is also pretty high.
So instead of in this case you have you know you can only statistically expect with like a 95 percent
chance that you will like most likely with a 95 percent chance your profit if you do make a profit will
be under whatever the value here is like $150.
But you know there's a 2 percent chance of you getting more than $150 here.
There's a huge chance of getting more than $150.
In fact there's huge chance of getting more than $1000 or $2000.
But it comes with a price and the price is that the downside is huge as well so that you will is very
very dangerous that you can also get very low like very high losses.
And you if you get a couple of those in a row because the stats.
These things can come randomly you could get a couple of these in a row and that's as much a margin
call right away like that means that all of your funds are lost and your account is frozen.
And so what's just finishing up wrapping up this little side note what traders generally prefer is this
like the smallest division because the standard deviation in finances is similar.
Our can be considered as a metric for risk.
You can see that here.
The celebration is lower and therefore probability of getting like a very bad result is lower ours in
the second scenario.
It's it's more and it's not just about trading as as we discussed in the disclaimers this tutorial is
not to discuss trading it's to discuss the effects or implications of or the side note is there to discuss
the implications of standard deviation on whatever you are observing.
And this is a great example is just very visual and impactful that even though in this case you have
a small mean.
And if you had a small standard deviation you know what is one thing compared to if you have the same
mean but you have a huge standard deviation.
It kind of it really diminishes the value of having a positive mean loofa negative mean you might as
well have had a negative mean and you would have gotten worse result but it wouldn't differ that much
in terms of the randomness because randomness adds like you could be getting values from here or from
here so the fact that you have a positive mean doesn't matter that much so that's what's that's what
a lot of people actually forget when they're trading for instance.
They just worry about this.
They don't think about this.
They lead like oh I'm getting a positive expected return.
But what is your standard deviation.
What is the risk associated with your trading or this investment fund.
And as you can see from this discussion this investment fund isn't doing a good job at all if they're
not there trades or all trades are distributed in this way.
So it's something that you know like it is is kind of like a I would say is a subpar investment fund
but again that's not about finances.
This is something this is more about statistics anyway.
So let's move on here.
We've got our solution templates we're going to continue working in the same template size approach.
We spoke about last time because it's going to be familiar and convenient and I didn't even bother drawing
a lipless distribution here because what's the point.
We don't really mind what distribution we have in the underlying population which are going to use the
Central Limit Theorem.
And so let's see how you did this challenge and let's compare.
All right.
So my mean all the sampling distribution of the sample mean was turned out to be ninety five point seventy.
I hope you got the same result because that's exactly the same as we have in the original distribution.
Then my standard deviation of the sampling distribution over the sample mean is segmented by square
of 100 or 1 2 4 7 divide by 10 is $124 70.
Our target is $20000.
So we're solving.
Which one are we solving.
I think it's part.
Part B or a when one of them our target was.
Let me just quickly check which one it was.
So you were solving part B first so the target.
What is it.
What is the probability of us reaching this target our target $20000.
So X critical is 20000 dollars and divide by 100.
So meaning that in those 100 trays that we get some can be profiteroles How can you losses something
bigger sunken to be smaller.
But what we want is that on average the each trade is on average among them let each trait among them.
On average a trades are two 100 or bring a profit of $200 portrayed on average.
That's what we that's a characteristic which we want for our sample that we're going to have.
Once that week is over once those traits are done if that characteristic is true then we've reached
outargued if that currency risk is false.
We haven't reached out.
So if it's less than 200 So we actually want it to be equally critical is the minimum we want it to
be two hundred or more if it's less than we didn't.
We won't we just we won't reach our target regardless of what our individual trades are.
If on average out of 100 trades they are less than two hundred dollars per trade.
Then we just multiply 200 by 100 get less than 20000.
OK.
So next step is let's draw that it's critical there it is.
That's the distance and now let's calculate the Zed's score.
The score is X critical minus myu X bar divided by Sigma X bar.
We plug everything in two hundred miles.
Ninety five point seventy divided by one twenty four point seventy.
So here I wanted to point out 200 minus ninety five point seven.
That sounds like a lot even when I was doing this challenge myself I felt like whoa that's huge.
So it's like 105 104.
You still have 104 in the numerator and you remember in your Zed in that tables they're usually like
you know was zero point something or onepoint something because that's the distances and certain deviations.
So if you think about it this distance between X critical and myu X is huge is 100 dollars so far away.
But the thing is that in our case a Sigma X bar so the sound deviation even of the sampling distribution
even after we divided by 10 is so large that it still will beat this value it'll make its much smaller
when you divide by that.
So basically as you can see from here 0.4 so are actually are x critical is not there.
It's inside here it's in between it's between Immunex and C-Max bar.
It's actually sitting over here simply because our this is not the best image.
Our distribution is actually very wide like that it's like that.
All right.
But this is just to just to keep us like on track.
It's just a graphic rather than an actual representation of get real and not really relying on this
image just just for guiding us through this challenge.
All right so basically zero point eighty four we go to the table.
Where is our table of these that table.
OK that table let's have a look.
Zero point eight right zero point eighty four.
OK so zero point 7 9 9 5.
But let's remember that's that is that part the left part of the it's always whatever from here to the
left you can see even here is always from here to the left.
That's easy to remember it's always the left side.
So zero point 7 9 9 5.
We want the right side.
So we do that x is greater than x critical is mine mine is zero point so 9 and 5 is twenty point zero
five percent.
So there's a 20 percent chance of making $20000 in a given week which pretty decent.
Pretty decent chance.
Now let's have a look at the chance of making a loss.
Second part of the challenge.
All right this doesn't change because it's same distribution.
The only thing that changes is where we're setting X critical so critical threshold this time is $0.
Instead of calling it target I'm calling a critical threshold because it's not really a target.
It's something to be.
We want I want to stay away from but distributions don't really care about that.
Distributions are going to or variables and samplings are just going to do their thing.
Randomness is going to be randomness whether we will like it or not.
So X critical is a 0 divided by 100.
So that's the critical threshold so how how many.
Remember how many dollars per trade do we want or do we want do we not want in this case $0 portrayed.
Obviously So if you if you want your know critical to be 0 then on average your trades should bring
zero.
Just just basic division by hand.
And let's plot that.
So let's say are x critical somewhere there.
That's the distance.
Let's calculate that Zad equals x critical minus myu ex-parte to add C-Max bar.
Plug them in zero minus ninety five point seventy.
Divide by 124 dots.
As you can see we're going to get a negative one again because this is looks like a lot but because
the standard vision is so high you know if it was like for this would be a lot this would be like close
to close to 20 20 to 23 24 somewhere on there minus 24.
But because this is so so high as well is going to be mine is zero point seventy seven.
So again it's critical wasn't actually there.
It's actually in between it's between the main and the first standard deviation to the left.
OK so now let's look at the tables.
So mine is zero point seventy seven.
Scroll up.
All right minus 0.7 maybe zoom in a little bit.
Zero point.
There it is.
Mine is there point seven and this one this one there were 20 to 06 and that's that part.
So that's exactly what we need.
That's or what we don't want but that's what we were calculating.
So X minus the Prabhudheva XP might lessen X critical is zero point 2 2 0 6 22 0 6 percent 22 percent
of making a loss in a given week.
So there we go.
And again this one is in between here.
So let's actually plot these out together.
So we're just these are the parameters over there at the top so we remember them for a bit of a wider
sampling distribution.
There our new X bar.
There's a Sigma X bar and so that is the probability of making over $20000 in a given week.
And that is the probability of making a loss in a given week.
So anything below zero dollars.
And as you can see the ability here is a bit greater than here because this was zero point eighty 80s.
84 I think or 0.37 or something.
Yeah this was minus 0.27.
So that's.
Is this on a zero point 84.
So this one is a bit closer to the center as to the mean and therefore the probability is capturing
more of this upside or more of this curve.
So operability is pretty high profile is behind this is what you were talking about so the both the
upside is high and the downside is high.
So there's a 22 percent chance that in a week in a given week there will be no profit whatever it will
be a loss.
And there's a 20 20 percent chance that there'll be a $20000 profit or more and there's a fifty seven
point eighty nine percent chance that something else will happen so anything between zero dollars remember
this is zero to $20000.
So overall this is not that bad if they're going to do 100 trades and that's a whole.
They maintain that that distribution.
You can see that like the power of numbers when it's one trade it's pretty berzerk.
But when if they if they can do 100 that's a lot of traders like 20 trades per day because it's only
five business days.
But if you're going to 20 trades per day and do like 100 in a week because you do that you have the
square root of the of an four to send deviation of the sampling mean.
This one becomes narrower it's narrower than that.
The sampling mean distribution is narrower than the or the standard vision is narrower than the one
of the original population and kind of like helps out I guess with things so.
So the situation is not that bad is only a 22 percent chance of having a loss in a given week.
And you know like what.
Twenty two hundred minus 22 so 70 78 percent chance or nearly 78 percent chance of having a profit.
So there we go.
That's a there's another good or Vivat actually example of how the central limit theorem can be super
super powerful.
Hope you can also see that and I hope you're successful with this challenge.
There's definitely lots of applications of social mental limit theorem if you'd like more exercise.
Just google the central limit theorem exercise or challenge or problem.
And there's lots and lots of different examples that you can go through in lots of different industries.
These are just some of the some of the cool ones that I was able to create for you.
But there's definitely lots more available because lots of people studying stats and so the central
limit theorem is just so powerful and used in so many different areas.
And on that note I am super excited that we've completed the Solve the central theorem and can wait
to keep going and learning more stuff together.
You and I will see you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.